feat(sage-monorepo): update PR description skill (SMR-755) (#4041)
Sage-Bionetworks/challenge-registry: .claude/skills/pr-description/SKILL.md

| -------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| [describe what to screenshot before merging] | [describe what to screenshot after merging] |
```

---

## Content Guidelines

### Description

- Lead with the business or technical objective — why was this work done?
- Mention the Jira ticket context if it adds clarity
- Keep it to 2-4 sentences

### Related Issue

- Always link the Jira ticket with a full URL: `[MG-893](https://sagebionetworks.jira.com/browse/MG-893)`
- If acceptance criteria were found, you do not need to reproduce them here — they inform the Testing section instead
- Omit this section only if there is genuinely no related ticket

### Changelog

- Use **flat, single-level bullets only** — no nested items
- Write in imperative voice: "Add", "Remove", "Update", "Fix"
- Keep items coarse-grained — group related file-level changes into one bullet
- Order from most to least important
- Aim for **3–7 bullets**; this is not an exhaustive file list

### Testing

This section is for **human reviewers**, not CI. Think about what a reviewer should manually
verify to gain confidence this PR is correct.

> - Use a **task-list format** (`- [ ]`) so reviewers can check items off

Reviewer: I would probably prefer bullets over the task-list format, since we generally have >1 reviewer per PR, so the ability to check items off isn't very useful. Up to you though! We could also consider splitting the testing section into different sub-steps for larger features (e.g. how to navigate through the UI to test particular functionality), but probably worth waiting to do that work until we run into a use case that we can use to fine tune the skill/template accordingly.

- Pull from Jira acceptance criteria when available — translate them into concrete reviewer steps
- Focus on functional verification: navigation flows, data correctness, edge cases
- Include API verification steps if relevant (e.g., "call GET /api/x and confirm the response includes field Y")
- **Do NOT suggest running unit tests, e2e tests, or lint commands** — CI covers those
- Aim for **3–6 actionable steps**

> ### Screenshots

Reviewer: Should we change this to `Preview` to align with the template? 

```suggestion
### Preview
```

---
name: pr-description
description: >

>   Generates a PR title and description body following this repository's conventions.

Reviewer 2: We still would like it to follow our template pattern if possible.
```suggestion
  Generates a PR title and description body following repository template standards.
```

found in Step 1 (from the branch name or commit messages). For example, if the branch is
`model-ad/MG-893-cutoff-button-alignment`, the output file is `tmp/pr-description/MG-893.md`.

The file starts with the PR title as an H1 heading, followed by the description body:

```markdown
# feat(model-ad): fix alignment of significance controls (MG-893)

## Description

...
```

Tell the user where the file is after writing it.

---

## Step 1 — Identify the Jira Ticket

The ticket ID appears in one of these places (check in order):

1. The current git branch name — pattern is usually `scope/TICKET-ID-slug`
   (e.g., `model-ad/MG-897-revert-debug-logging` → ticket `MG-897`)
2. Recent commit messages on the current branch (not on `main`)
3. The user may state it directly

Common ticket prefixes in this repo: **AG**, **MG**, **QTL**, **SMR**.

### Fetching ticket details from Jira

This skill expects a Jira MCP server (e.g., `mcp-jira-cloud`) to be configured. Use the
MCP tools to fetch the ticket. Pull:

- Summary, description, and acceptance criteria
- All **sub-tasks** (fetch them individually to get their full details)

> - All **linked/related issues**

Reviewer 2: this section probably could be removed after #4061 is merged, or specify to follow the rules in`.claude/rules/atlassian-mcp.md` (in case the rule is not automatically loaded for some reason)

- **scope** (optional): one of the scopes defined in `lint-pr.yml`
- **subject**: must NOT start with an uppercase letter
- Append the Jira ticket ID(s) in parentheses at the end, e.g., `(AG-2068)` or `(AG-2049, AG-2067)`

Match the style of recent merged PRs. Check a few with:

```bash
git log main --oneline -10
```

Examples from this repo:

- `feat(agora): add drug details summary tab (AG-2068)`
- `fix(model-ad): fix alignment of significance controls (MG-893)`
- `chore(deps): bump docker/metadata-action from 5.6.1 to 6.0.0`

---

## Step 4 — Generate the Description Body

Use this exact template. Do not add sections or change headings — this matches the
repository's `.github/pull_request_template.md`.

```markdown
## Description

[2-4 sentences explaining WHY these changes were made and the business/technical motivation.
Focus on the objective and benefits, not a list of what changed.]

## Related Issue

[Link to the Jira ticket. Include sub-tasks and related issues if they exist.]

- [TICKET-ID](https://sagebionetworks.jira.com/browse/TICKET-ID)
  - Sub-task: [TICKET-ID](url) — summary

>   - Related: [TICKET-ID](url) — summary

Reviewer 2: would your like to have all related tickets linked here or just main ticket? - I'm open to both.

Author: Let's leave as is for now.  I don't have a strong opinion right now.

## Changelog

- [High-level change — imperative voice, e.g., "Add feature X"]
- [Another high-level change]

## Testing

[Steps a human reviewer can follow to verify this PR works correctly.
Do NOT include unit test or e2e test commands — CI handles those.]

- [ ] Step a reviewer can perform manually
- [ ] Another verification step

### Screenshots

[If the PR includes visual/UI changes, suggest specific screenshots to capture.]

| Before                                       | After                                       |
| -------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| [describe what to screenshot before merging] | [describe what to screenshot after merging] |
```

---

## Content Guidelines

### Description

- Lead with the business or technical objective — why was this work done?
- Mention the Jira ticket context if it adds clarity
- Keep it to 2-4 sentences

### Related Issue

- Always link the Jira ticket with a full URL: `[MG-893](https://sagebionetworks.jira.com/browse/MG-893)`

> - List sub-tasks and related issues underneath, indented, with their summaries

Reviewer 2: Do we want to include this here? I think the skill only needs to retrieve the relevant information from the tickets during creation, rather than listing all sub-tasks and related issues in this section.

Author: Good idea.  Removing

- If acceptance criteria were found, you do not need to reproduce them here — they inform the Testing section instead
- Omit this section only if there is genuinely no related ticket

### Changelog

- Use **flat, single-level bullets only** — no nested items
- Write in imperative voice: "Add", "Remove", "Update", "Fix"
- Keep items coarse-grained — group related file-level changes into one bullet
- Order from most to least important
- Aim for **3–7 bullets**; this is not an exhaustive file list

### Testing

This section is for **human reviewers**, not CI. Think about what a reviewer should manually
verify to gain confidence this PR is correct.

- Use a **task-list format** (`- [ ]`) so reviewers can check items off
- Pull from Jira acceptance criteria when available — translate them into concrete reviewer steps
- Focus on functional verification: navigation flows, data correctness, edge cases
- Include API verification steps if relevant (e.g., "call GET /api/x and confirm the response includes field Y")
- **Do NOT suggest running unit tests, e2e tests, or lint commands** — CI covers those
- Aim for **3–6 actionable steps**

> ### Screenshots

Reviewer 2: how about changing this section to "Preview" as we use recording as well.

Could you add this section to the template as well
